We introduce Genie, the first generative interactive environment trained in an unsupervised manner from unlabelled Internet videos. The model can be prompted to generate an endless variety of action-controllable virtual worlds described through text, synthetic images, photographs, and even sketches. At 11B parameters, Genie can be considered a foundation world model. It is comprised of a spatiotemporal video tokenizer, an autoregressive dynamics model, and a simple and scalable latent action model. Genie enables users to act in the generated environments on a frame-by-frame basis despite training without any ground-truth action labels or other domain-specific requirements typically found in the world model literature. Further the resulting learned latent action space facilitates training agents to imitate behaviors from unseen videos, opening the path for training generalist agents of the future.
Biological systems perceive the world by simultaneously processing high-dimensional inputs from modalities as diverse as vision, audition, touch, proprioception, etc. The perception models used in deep learning on the other hand are designed for individual modalities, often relying on domain-specific assumptions such as the local grid structures exploited by virtually all existing vision models. These priors introduce helpful inductive biases, but also lock models to individual modalities. In this paper we introduce the Perceiver - a model that builds upon Transformers and hence makes few architectural assumptions about the relationship between its inputs, but that also scales to hundreds of thousands of inputs, like ConvNets. The model leverages an asymmetric attention mechanism to iteratively distill inputs into a tight latent bottleneck, allowing it to scale to handle very large inputs. We show that this architecture is competitive with or outperforms strong, specialized models on classification tasks across various modalities: images, point clouds, audio, video, and video+audio. The Perceiver obtains performance comparable to ResNet-50 and ViT on ImageNet without 2D convolutions by directly attending to 50,000 pixels. It is also competitive in all modalities in AudioSet.
Background: The field of Artificial Intelligence has undergone cyclical periods of growth and decline, known as AI summers and winters. Currently, we are in the third AI summer, characterized by significant advancements and commercialization, particularly in the integration of Symbolic AI and Sub-Symbolic AI, leading to the emergence of Neuro-Symbolic AI.
Symbolic models play a key role in cognitive science, expressing computationally precise hypotheses about how the brain implements a cognitive process. Identifying an appropriate model typically requires a great deal of effort and ingenuity on the part of a human scientist. Here, we adapt FunSearch Romera-Paredes et al. (2024), a recently developed tool that uses Large Language Models (LLMs) in an evolutionary algorithm, to automatically discover symbolic cognitive models that accurately capture human and animal behavior. We consider datasets from three species performing a classic reward-learning task that has been the focus of substantial modeling effort, and find that the discovered programs outperform state-of-the-art cognitive models for each. The discovered programs can readily be interpreted as hypotheses about human and animal cognition, instantiating interpretable symbolic learning and decision-making algorithms. Broadly, these results demonstrate the viability of using LLM-powered program synthesis to propose novel scientific hypotheses regarding mechanisms of human and animal cognition.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a field of computer science that deals with the simulation of human intelligence using machines so that such machines gain problem-solving and decision-making capabilities similar to that of the human brain. Neuroscience is the scientific study of the struczture and cognitive functions of the brain. Neuroscience and AI are mutually interrelated. These two fields help each other in their advancements. The theory of neuroscience has brought many distinct improvisations into the AI field. The biological neural network has led to the realization of complex deep neural network architectures that are used to develop versatile applications, such as text processing, speech recognition, object detection, etc. Additionally, neuroscience helps to validate the existing AI-based models. Reinforcement learning in humans and animals has inspired computer scientists to develop algorithms for reinforcement learning in artificial systems, which enables those systems to learn complex strategies without explicit instruction. Such learning helps in building complex applications, like robot-based surgery, autonomous vehicles, gaming applications, etc. In turn, with its ability to intelligently analyze complex data and extract hidden patterns, AI fits as a perfect choice for analyzing neuroscience data that are very complex. Large-scale AI-based simulations help neuroscientists test their hypotheses. Through an interface with the brain, an AI-based system can extract the brain signals and commands that are generated according to the signals. These commands are fed into devices, such as a robotic arm, which helps in the movement of paralyzed muscles or other human parts. AI has several use cases in analyzing neuroimaging data and reducing the workload of radiologists. The study of neuroscience helps in the early detection and diagnosis of neurological disorders. In the same way, AI can effectively be applied to the prediction and detection of neurological disorders. Thus, in this paper, a scoping review has been carried out on the mutual relationship between AI and neuroscience, emphasizing the convergence between AI and neuroscience in order to detect and predict various neurological disorders.